foreign
[Music]
hello
I'm Tom Seyfried professor of biology at
Boston College in Chestnut Hill
Massachusetts and a founding member of
the keto live project
we have been studying epilepsy I should
say the genetics and biochemistry of
epilepsy and cancer for several deaths
for several decades
we have been in the process of
developing metabolic therapies for the
effective management of these diseases
using reduced glucose and elevated
Ketone strategies based on ketogenic
diets and other nutritional
interventions
this shows the uh one of the strategies
that we've used for managing cancer
called press pulse it's a ketogenic
metabolic therapy for cancer management
it's based on the idea that cancer is
primarily a mitochondrial metabolic
disease
all cancer cells most if not all cancer
cells rely on two fuels to grow that is
glucose the sugar glucose and the amino
acid glutamine
these two fuels are what essentially
Drive the disease to uh to grow dis
dysregulated
so in this in this strategy ketogenic
metabolic therapy why do we do this
because we're trying to lower the fuel
the glucose that drives the tumor cell
and Elevate ketones a non-fermentable
fuel so glucose and glutamine are the
fermentation molecules needed for cancer
cells to grow and as I said most if not
all cancer cells regardless of disease
location tissue or whatever they share
this common problem they must ferment
what do they ferment they ferment
glucose and glutamine knowing that
understanding the biology we can now
design strategies to manage this uh this
disease and these primarily involve
press therapies where we chronically
lower the availability of glucose while
elevating uh Ketone bodies Ketone bodies
cannot be metabolized by tumor cells
because they have defective mitochondria
we also use emotional stress management
because that elevates sugar so so blood
sugar so you have to get stress under
control for this metabolic therapy to
work effectively then once the patient
is in a state of nutritional ketosis we
then use press therapies which are
essentially involved drugs so we use low
doses of drugs that further Target
glucose and drugs that Target glutamine
the key amino acid that's fermented by
tumor cells there is no diet that we
know of that can lower glutamine so
therefore we must include drugs that
Target glutamine so press pulse
ketogenic metabolic therapy is basically
a diet drug approach to managing cancer
and we can manage cancer without
toxicity as long as we can restrict
these available fuels to the growing
tumor cells most patients when they
enter the clinic cancer patients they
not only have cancer many of them but
they also have other comorbidities like
Diet type 2 diabetes cardiovascular
disease and other conditions
the Press pulse ketogenic metabolic
therapy brings the patient from a
disease State into a managed state which
lowers systemic inflammation and shrinks
the the growth of the tumors
then we continue with modifications of
dosage timing and scheduling of the diet
drug interactions and we move the
patient from a state of management to a
state of resolution
in addition to the diet and drugs we
also use procedures such as hyperbaric
oxygen which we think will kill tumor
cells by creating oxidative stress
similar to that of radiation but without
the toxicity
so the ultimate goal is to manage cancer
using non-toxic metabolic therapies
based on ketogenic metabolic ships so I
look forward to my continued
participation in the keto live project
and encourage those that are interested
in using non-toxic metabolic strategies
to look into this project further
because we think this will be the
strategy for the management of the
majority of chronic diseases that
currently afflict most of us in various
societies
thank you very much
[Music]